# Cardiac-Failure-Predictive-Modelling
The data set chosen from the UCI repository pertains to heart failure clinical records. The purpose of this report is to be able to make predictions about patient survivability by making use of the patients clinical records like pre-existing health conditions like diabetes, hypertension or anemia, patient’s habits like smoking and patient’s vital like serum creatinine, creatinine phosphokinase, serum sodium and other such indicators. For this purpose the data was prepared in task 1 using pandas library by transferring it to a data frame. In task 2 the data was explored using boxplot, histogram, pie charts and bar graphs. Relationships between features were explored and visualized and a meaningful question about patient survival rate depending on pre-existing health conditions was posed and answered using pie charts and group by method. In task 3 feature selection was undertaken and ‘time’ feature was eliminated because it can vary according to heart failure outcome i.e. be less for a patient when the patient died during follow-up. Two predictive models Decision Tree Classifier and K-Nearest Neighbor Classifier were chosen for the data set. Since KNN is a distance-based algorithm (utilizing Minkowski’s distance) X was scaled using the MinMaxScaler function to the default range of 0, 1 to get best possible results for KNN. While for decision tree the original values themselves were utilized. Before fitting the models the values of hyper parameters for both KNN (n_neighbors) and decision tree (max_depth, min_samples_leaf) were tuned. The classifiers were initialized using the tuned hyper parameters and then the predictions are obtained. To evaluate the performance of the predictive models the predictions were compared to the ground truth using accuracy scores, confusion matrices and performance report. These were then analyzed and visualized to draw appropriate conclusions.
